Document common errors that users made in SCM integration (#303)
openSUSE/obs-landing: _posts/development/2021-07-08-document-scm.md

---
layout: post
title: Common Pitfalls to Avoid in the Continuous Integration with OBS and GitHub/GitLab
category: development
---

> Many of you are already playing around with our new beta feature: Souce code management system (SCM) integration with OBS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many of you are already playing around with our new beta feature: Source Code Management system (SCM) integration with OBS.
```
What about using just the SCM acronym?

Have a look at our previous blog posts regarding the topic to find complete instructions for the SCM integration.
[Improvements for the Continuous Integration with OBS and GitHub/GitLab](https://openbuildservice.org/2021/06/14/scm-integration-improvements/) and
[Continuous Integration with OBS and GitHub/GitLab](https://openbuildservice.org/2021/05/31/scm-integration/).

## Where to See the Errors?
One good place to identify the errors for Github is
Settings -> Webhooks -> Edit webhook -> Recent Deliveries (tab).
<figure>
  <img src="/images/posts/document-scm/github-error-reporting.png" alt="Webhook errors" width="1000px" />
  <figcaption>Github Webhook Errors</figcaption>
</figure>

For Gitlab you can find the errors under Project -> Settings -> Weebhooks -> Edit -> Recent Deliveries (bottom of the page).
<figure>
  <img src="/images/posts/document-scm/gitlab-error-reporting.png" alt="Webhook errors" width="1000px" />
  <figcaption>Gitlab Webhook Errors</figcaption>
</figure>

## Errors & Solutions
Some common errors and their solutions.

- Invalid Yaml file  

> OBS assumes that your repository contains a `.obs/workflow.yml` file. To get the idea of how to format the workflow.yml file you can see the sample [here](https://github.com/openSUSE/open-build-service/tree/master/.obs). OBS only considers this file to be present in your base branch and will not consider any updates to this file in other branches.  

Reviewer 2: It's `workflows.yml`:

```suggestion
OBS assumes that your repository contains a `.obs/workflows.yml` file. To get the idea of how to format the workflows.yml file you can see the sample [here](https://github.com/openSUSE/open-build-service/tree/master/.obs). OBS only considers this file to be present in your base branch and will not consider any updates to this file in other branches.  
```

---
layout: post

> title: More Improvements for the Continuous Integration with OBS and GitHub/GitLab

Reviewer 2: How about this title to avoid repeating the title from our previous blog post?

```suggestion
title: Common Pitfalls to Avoid in the Continuous Integration with OBS and GitHub/GitLab
```

Author: Done.

category: development
---

> # Introduction

Reviewer 2: This heading doesn't bring any context or value, we can remove it.

```suggestion
```

Author: Done.

> This article is the continuation of [Continuous Integration with OBS and GitHub/GitLab](https://openbuildservice.org/2021/05/31/scm-integration/). Here we have explained some tips that were not clear in other posts.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This article is the continuation of a series of articles related to the SCM integration, starting with [Continuous Integration with OBS and GitHub/GitLab](https://openbuildservice.org/2021/05/31/scm-integration/). Here we explain some tips that were not clear in other posts.
```

> ## Structure of the repository in SCM ##

Reviewer 2: Ending a heading with `#` isn't needed. The capitalization is also wrong. You can check it with https://capitalizemytitle.com/.

```suggestion
## Structure of the Repository in SCM
```

> OBS assumes that your repository contains a `.obs/workflow.yml` file. To get the idea of how to format the workflow.yml file you can see the sample [here](https://github.com/openSUSE/open-build-service/tree/master/.obs). OBS only considers this file to be present in your base branch and will not consider any updates to this file in other branches.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
OBS downloads from the default branch (often called `main` or `master`) of your SCM repository the workflow configuration file which is to be stored in `.obs/workflows.yml`. Any change to this file on other branches won't be taken into account. For a workflow configuration file example, have a look [here](https://github.com/openSUSE/open-build-service/tree/master/.obs/workflows.yml).
```

> ## Package in OBS (_service file) ##

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## The _service File
```

    <param name="extract">dist/obs-bundled-gems.spec</param>
    <param name="extract">dist/obs-server.spec</param>
    <param name="extract">dist/obs-rpmlintrc</param>
    <param name="extract">dist/gem_build_cleanup.sh</param>
    <param name="extract">src/api/Gemfile</param>
    <param name="extract">src/api/Gemfile.lock</param>
  </service>
  <service name="bundle_gems">
    <param name="strategy">cpio</param>
  </service>
  <service name="set_version"/>
  <service name="tar" mode="buildtime"/>
  <service name="recompress" mode="buildtime">
    <param name="compression">xz</param>
    <param name="file">*.tar</param>
  </service>
</services>
```
You can check a sample project published on [OBS](https://build.opensuse.org/package/view_file/OBS:Server:Unstable/obs-server/_service?expand=0&rev=424295e96102d316454e624b0a3d1ae3)

With this feature, OBS is going to branch the package in your home project. You can find the branched packages under home_project/Subprojects. The naming convention looks like this:
```
<home_project>:<original_project_name>:PR-<number>.
```
Example:
```
home:Rubhan:SCM_integration:PR-1
```

> ## Personal Access Token ##

Reviewer 2: This section is already explained in the first blog post about the OBS/SCM integration: https://openbuildservice.org/2021/05/31/scm-integration/#authentication-setup

You need to create an SCM personal access token and provide it to OBS so that OBS can communicate with your SCM. Here you can see the details for [Github](https://docs.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/creating-a-personal-access-token), and [Gitlab](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/profile/personal_access_tokens.html#creating-a-personal-access-token). Don't forget to provide this token when you create an OBS workflow token.

> ## Creating Workflow tokens in OBS ##

Reviewer 2: This section is already explained in the first blog post about the OBS/SCM integration: https://openbuildservice.org/2021/05/31/scm-integration/#authentication-setup, so it's redundant. We can link to that blog post instead of repeating ourselves.
